Intent2.0 (#1)
IntentSoftware/Docs: articles/howtos/create-new-decorator.md

---
uid: CreateNewDecorator
---
# How can I create a new Decorator?

> Click [here](xref:Decorator) to find out more about Decorators.

Author: I wonder if it's better to put this at the end as further reading, it will avoid any readers getting distracted for this article. However, if one doesn't know what a decorator is, then I suppose reading the article isn't going to be useful. I'm interested in other people's thoughts here, @joelsteventurner, @garethbaars?

Reviewer: Why so @JonathanLydall ? Is that Decorator page not well written to explain that?

Author: My concern is that having the link at the start here _might_ make people feel they need to read more about decorators first, distracting them from the goal of the how-to. By moving it to the end of the article instead, it may be less distracting.

We may need to discuss as a team or find more opinion online.

Reviewer: Or maybe we just add hyperlinks on "Decorator" keywords to take you to the reference page?
Also, I asked the question because you said "However, if one doesn't know what a decorator is, then I suppose reading the article isn't going to be useful.", so I wanted to know if it is because the reference page wasn't clear enough.

Author: Cool, we'll add a link on the line below this one.

```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> This how-to will serve as an example of how to create a new Decorator that will inject code at runtime for a Template that has been setup for it.

Author: - Checking on Google, "setup" is a noun, while "set up" is an action, if we kept the wording, then the latter should be used.
- "How to" being mentioned twice in each sentence here feels a bit off to me.
- That article says that how-to's should avoid explanations, so perhaps we don't bother mentioning that code is injected.
- This is more of a global thing, but we need to decide on the style for "Intent" concept words (like Decorator or Template), you had them capitalised, do we want this? Possible alternatives are:
  - Unstyled, just an all lower case word.
  - Italicized, but still lower case.
  - On the first mention of a concept, we hyper link it.

```suggestion
This how-to will guide you through creating new decorator for a template already configured to be able to use it.
```

Author: I'm inclined to agree with you about the inject word. We can discuss further tonight.

Author: As per my last comment on line 6, adding a link to a the Decorator details.

```suggestion
This how-to will guide you through creating new [](xref:Decorator) for a template already configured to be able to use it.
```

In regards to use of the inject word, having re-read the how-to section of docs [article](https://www.divio.com/blog/documentation/) I linked:
> # FOCUS ON RESULTS
> How-to guides must focus on achieving a practical goal. Anything else is a distraction. As in tutorials, detailed explanations are out of place here.
> # DON’T EXPLAIN CONCEPTS
> A how-to guide should not explain things. It’s not the place for discussions of that kind; they will simply get in the way of the action. If explanations are important, link to them.

I'm thinking again to rather omit the "inject" word, especially as we will have a link now which talks extensively about what a decorator is and what it does. What are your thoughts?

This how-to will build up from the [previous](xref:MakeTemplateDecoratorReady) how-to, which showed how to make a Template ready for Decorators. Please interpolate on your end what is written here to make the necessary adjustments on what you're trying to achieve.

> 

Author: Maybe we just omit this to keep the article as concise as possible.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I guess, the whole point of a howto is to be stand-alone. I think you should be able to execute both how-tos in any order. So we could take it out.

Author: This relates to the comment below, we'll address both together I think.

Author: Again referring to the docs guide article:

> # LEAVE THINGS OUT
> Practical usability is more valuable than completeness. Tutorials need to be complete, end-to-end guides; how-to guides do not. They can start and end where it seems appropriate to you. They don’t need to mention everything that there is to mention either, just because it is related to the topic. A bloated how-to guide doesn’t help the user get speedily to their solution.

With that in mind, I think we remove this line, let me know what you think. If you're okay with that go ahead and make the change, otherwise let me know and I'll do it.

## Create a new Decorator

> Typically you would create a new Decorator in a new Intent Architect Application which will reference a Template from another Module or Intent Architect Application. As such we will be doing that.

Author: ```suggestion
Using the the Intent Architect Application's Module Builder, it's easy to scaffold and wire up a new decorator.
```

![Startup](images/create-new-decorator/MyDecoratorModuleStartup.png)

> Go ahead and create your Application in Intent Architect that will be used to create the Module that will contain the new Decorator for the `StartupTemplate`.

Author: ```suggestion
Start by creating an Application in Intent Architect that will be used to create the Module that will contain the new Decorator for the `StartupTemplate`.
```

Reviewer: That TIP doesn't explain how to make a module, only how to take an existing Template and make it Decorator ready. Might want to point it to a tutorial? Happy to change the code above.

Author: This relates to the comment above and my overall thinking is about aiming to overall keep this article as concise possible. The purpose of the tip is that "this is our starting point, check there for how to get there." ,

Author: ```suggestion
Start by creating an Application in Intent Architect that will be used to create the Module that will contain the new Decorator for the `StartupTemplate`.

> [!HINT]
> If you want to know how to make a template decorator capable, refer to the [](xref:MakeTemplateDecoratorReady) how-to article.
```

By moving the link to the previous article to rather be a hint, it changes it from feeling like it's pre-requisite reading, to rather being optional reading. For readers who already know they need to implement a decorator, they can ignore this hint.

What do you think?

> Once the generation is done, create a new Decorator called `StaticFileServerDecorator`.

Author: ```suggestion
Once the application creation is complete, right-click on the `Module Builder` node to create a new Decorator called `StaticFileServerDecorator`.
```

Reviewer: Makes sense, it aligns with what has already been mentioned which is to "create your application"

![New Decroator](images/create-new-decorator/NewDecorator.png)

> We need to specify the Contract name for that Decorator so that it will know for which Template it is meant to Decorate.

Author: ```suggestion
Enter `MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract` in the `Implements Decorator Contract`'s `Type Fullname` field.
```

Side note, could we change the module builder stereotype to make this a drop down with templates in the module, would we want to?

Reviewer: Unfortunately not, unless we make it a Type of its own where people can define a fully qualified namespace to the Contract type they are referring to. That might be the best but not sure how much will need to change.

Author: If I recall there are other places in this how-to which maybe highlight that there may be room for improvement in Intent or the Module Builder. Maybe there is nothing more we can do here, but any friction point in the process should be scrutinized for possible improvement and GitHub issues made where possible.

Reviewer: Definitely, and let's keep track of it using the Issue logging feature on Github

Author: I've made an issue at https://github.com/IntentSoftware/IntentArchitect/issues/188.

Let me know how you feel about the suggested change or if you're happy feel free to commit it yourself.

To recap, the Template we're trying to Decorate is the `StartupTemplate` and it requires a Decorator that adheres to this interface:

```csharp
public interface IStartupTemplateContract : ITemplateDecorator
{
    string ConfigureCode();
}
```

It has a Full Namespace of: `MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract`

> So that is the value that we need to specify in the `Full TypeName` field for that Decorator.

Author: I'm thinking that we just have this in a NOTE and simplify it to something like:

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This is the fully qualified name of the decorator interface which was created for your `StartupTemplate` in the [](xref:MakeTemplateDecoratorReady) article.
```

(As per one of my earlier comments, we could leave the square brackets empty to have the article name resolved automatically.)

Reviewer: Perhaps we can change the wording but I do feel its important that people know what the contract looks like that they are working with. Perhaps we can say "We are attempting to Decorate the `StartupTemplate` and it requires that the Decorator adhere to this interface:"

Author: Because all we're doing at this point is entering values into the stereotype field, I don't think that what the interface looks like is relevant, _yet_. Later on in the article where we're implementing the interface, we could put in a code fence of what the interface looks like exactly.

Reviewer: If order is the concern we can move it but I do feel that it is important that we keep it on the page

Author: I think we'll inline the entire interface as code further down in this article where the implementation needs to be done.

> [!NOTE]
> This is the fully qualified name of the decorator interface which was created for the `StartupTemplate` in the [](xref:MakeTemplateDecoratorReady) article, if you're implementing a different decorator interface then enter its fully qualified name instead.

Let me know how you feel about the suggested change or if you're happy feel free to commit it yourself.

> Also, click on the `Declare Usings` flag in the `Decorator Settings` panel.

Author: ```suggestion
Ensure the `Decorator Settings`'s `Declare Usings` box is checked.
```

Side note, should we perhaps update our stereotype in the module builder to check this by default?

![Add Type FullName](images/create-new-decorator/AddFQDN.png)

> Run the code generation.

Author: ```suggestion
Run the software factory.
```

![Code Generation Staging](images/create-new-decorator/CodeGenerationStaging.png)

Open Visual Studio and navigate to where the code has been generated and open up the `MyCompany.MyDecoratorModule` solution.

> You will notice that it has generated a Decorator as well as a Registration for the Decorator.

Author: I was originally thinking it's a bit superfluous, but I'm thinking just a minor change in wording will avoid that.

```suggestion
Observe that `StaticFileServerDecorator.cs` and `StaticFileServerDecoratorRegistration.cs` were generated.
```

![Solution Tree Structure](images/create-new-decorator/SolutionTreeStructure.png)

Although, you will notice that the IDE reports a problem with our namespace we gave it.

![IDE Error](images/create-new-decorator/IDEError.png)

## Ensure the "blueprint" (or contract) assembly is referenced

To fix this issue, we need to make sure that we reference the assembly that contains `IStartupTemplateContract`.

In our case this is simple. We add a project reference to that solution.

![Add Existing Project](images/create-new-decorator/AddExistingProject.png)

Let's add that module as an existing project into our current solution.

![Add Project Reference](images/create-new-decorator/AddProjectReference.png)

Now we add that project as a reference to our new module project.

> 

Author: This is the part that worries me, it's just a really rough looking user experience.

I agree with your comment that we can't write this for "wishful" changes to intent or the module builder, leaving out essential information for users to be able to succeed right now.

If this how-to is assumed to be using the same solution as the "make template decorator ready" one, then the referencing shouldn't be an issue. and we can leave this out completely, but add the following:

```
> [!NOTE]
> If you're not using the same solution as the [](xref:MakeTemplateDecoratorReady) article and/or the decorator you are implementing resides in a different assembly, you will need to ensure that you have [referenced](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/managing-references-in-a-project) it.
```

What do you think?

> 

Author: I wonder if assuming one is starting from the point where the StartupTemplate how-to ended would be better, that would allow us to skip all these lines and make the how-to simpler.

Reviewer: No that is vital information for that page. It explains for the new decorator what has been generated and what errors one will run into and how to fix it. There is no previous page that explains how this works.

Author: Let's talk more this evening, my concern is that all this makes Intent Architect and the Module Builder seem to have needless additional complexity. At the very least this is a smell that we have room for improvement.

I feel that things should ideally work by default, people shouldn't have to just know about extra steps to workaround things that should ideally be working automatically.

Reviewer: Let's just keep a clear distinction between as-is and should-be, as I agree that wherever we can get Intent to do things better that we put those kinds of things in the should-be and figure out if it is worth the effort to make it the new as-is. So for right now, I would keep that on the page so that people don't get lost.

Author: I'm going to resolve this conversation, but then comment line by line on specific concerns.

## Implement the Decorator

This should resolve our initial problem which is that the interface was not found but now we need to implement that interface, so we're not out of the woods yet.

![Go To Implement Interface Command](images/create-new-decorator/GoToImplementInterfaceCommand.png)

Once we instructed Visual Studio to implement this interface, you will notice that it added two things:

> 

Author: I think can assume basic knowledge of C# and keep in mind with R# this option is missing. I think it could all be simplified to:

```
Add the following code to implement the `MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract` interface:
```

Reviewer: Maybe, maybe not. I just think that having that there could mean less queries directed to us (unnecessarily).

Author: We could link to an MSDN article on interfaces I suppose.

Author: Keeping in mind my [comment](https://github.com/IntentSoftware/Docs/pull/1/files#r366506549) a little further down. I'm thinking the following:

```suggestion
Add the following code to implement the `MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract` interface:

> [!TIP]
> You use Visual Studio's light-bulb can generate interface implementations for you:
> ![Go To Implement Interface Command](images/create-new-decorator/GoToImplementInterfaceCommand.png)
```

> ```csharp

Author: Towards keeping the how-to as concise as possible, let's make the code work off the bat.

Reviewer: What do you mean?

Author: My thinking is that the code example here should already be done correctly fully. We don't necessarily need to show what it looked like by default after the code-gen, they would see it themselves, it's more concise to just have written below on what it needs to be.

(In case you're unfamiliar with the idiom "off-the-bat" which I might have also used slightly wrong, you can see an explanation [here](https://idioms.thefreedictionary.com/off+the+bat)).

Reviewer: I was unsure what you meant based on the context. So the idea, like mentioned in a previous comment above (https://github.com/IntentSoftware/Docs/pull/1#discussion_r365611409) is to assume that developers are going to run into issues, so I wanted to make it as smooth as possible for them to get to the end destination by adding a little more content. Until Intent can more smoothly do more or we know that most developers know how to work with C# and Visual Studio, I would keep that there just in case.

Author: @dandrejvv, while having dinner, it occurred to me that we need to decide on what assumptions this article makes on the background of the reader. Once we've decided on that, then it becomes quite clear what can be omitted.

From that blog post in regards to how-tos:
> **Practical usability is more valuable than completeness.** Tutorials need to be complete, end-to-end guides; how-to guides do not. They can start and end where it seems appropriate to you. They don’t need to mention everything that there is to mention either, just because it is related to the topic. A bloated how-to guide doesn’t help the user get speedily to their solution.

So, with that in mind, here are my thoughts on assumptions this article can make:
- Decorators are an advanced concept and are probably not going to be taken on by people brand new to Intent.
- We assume the reader already knows about writing modules and templates and feel somewhat comfortable doing so already.
- We can assume basic proficiency in Visual Studio (or their IDE of choice) and C#, so they know:
  - ...how to implement an interface.
  - ...how to reference assemblies or add NuGet packages to projects.
  - ...enough about `usings` and namespaces.

In practical terms, let's imagine someone like any of your colleagues at your current job is already practised at creating and updating their own templates in Intent and now found the need to make a decorator, either for their one of their own template, or someone else's.

If we were standing over their shoulder and telling them what to click and write, what would be the minimum instructions that we would need to give them? And that's what I think this how-to should be.

Also, I think that how-tos like this are consumed by quite senior devs, people like ourselves. Speaking for myself, I generally just want to see as quickly as possibly with as little fluff as possible what needs to be done. For things that are unclear to me, then to save me a Google search, it's very useful within the how-to to have links to reference articles which explain them in depth.

In summary for how-to articles, assume the reader kind of knows a lot, but just wants to see how-to do something.

Reviewer: Hi @JonathanLydall , I've sent you a personal response to the message above.

> public int Priority => throw new NotImplementedException();

Author: ```suggestion
public int Priority => 0;
```

Reviewer: I have added text explaining that you need to change that a 0. I wanted to explain that you will get that code once VS has generated it for you.

Author: My feeling is that at this point priorities are slightly advanced topic and unimportant towards the immediate goal of getting a decorator up and running.

We could add a hint below with wording to the effect of (I haven't checked the link):
> Priorities allow additional advanced control of the order in which decorators are run. See the [](xref:Decorators) article for more information.

Also, it may be worth making decorators always implement an abstract base class which has this a virtual member with `0` as default.

Reviewer: I agree that we can make a reference page explaining these Priorities. We can settle with a tip for the time being. As for the default Priority of 0, that is a more involved change in the Intent and Inoxico modules.

public string ConfigureCode()
{

>     throw new NotImplementedException();

Author: ```suggestion
    return @"app.UseStaticFiles(new StaticFileOptions
    {
        FileProvider = new PhysicalFileProvider(
            Path.Combine(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory(), ""MyStaticFiles"")),
        RequestPath = ""/StaticFiles""
    });";
}
```

Reviewer: Already explained above.

Author: Sorry, I'm not sure which comment you're referring to now, and I've since added [this comment](https://github.com/IntentSoftware/Docs/pull/1/files#r366506549).

How do you feel now about the suggested change?

}
```

The Priority helps to clarify in which order the Decorator gets applied. You will notice in the [Aggregate method](xref:MakeTemplateDecoratorReady#aggregate-all-the-decorators-output) of that Template that it does an order by `Priority`.

So in our case, we want to put this at an arbitrary order and supply the value `1`.

As for the Code that we want to generate, we will write the following lines inside the `ConfigureCode` method:

```csharp
public string ConfigureCode()
{
    return @"app.UseStaticFiles(new StaticFileOptions
    {
        FileProvider = new PhysicalFileProvider(
            Path.Combine(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory(), ""MyStaticFiles"")),
        RequestPath = ""/StaticFiles""
    });";
}
```

> 

Author: To keep the content as concise as possible, I think this could all be removed. Concepts like priority could be explained in _explanation_ or _reference_ articles.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I agree that it could have its own Priority explanation page.

Author: Cool, let me know if I should apply the change myself or if you have additional thoughts

Also, with the Declare Usings section, we need to specify some namespaces that our Decorator will need to successfully apply code that will compile.

> Override the `DeclareUsings` method to look like this:

Author: ```suggestion
Add the following to the class to override the `DeclareUsings` method:
```

    <dependency id="Intent.Common" version="2.0.0" />
    <dependency id="Intent.Common.Types" version="2.0.0" />
    <dependency id="MyCompany.MyModule" version="1.0.0" />
</dependencies>
```

Where did we get this info?
Open up the `MyCompany.MyModule.imodspec` file in the project we imported.

At the top of that XML file you will see this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<package>
  <id>MyCompany.MyModule</id>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
```

We only need the `id` and `version` fields and that gets used to specify module dependencies.

Now I can compile the solution.

## Install the Decorator Module in your application

Open up the `Test.App` in Intent Architect, click on the `Modules` on the side panel.

Click on the "gear" icon located to the right. Add the location to the new Module.

![Asset Repo](images/create-new-decorator/AssetRepo.png)

**Name**: MyDecoratorModule
**Address**: ./MyDecoratorModule/Intent.Modules

Now, select the `MyDecoratorModule` in the dropdown.

![Ready To Install My Decorator](images/create-new-decorator/ReadyToInstallMyDecorator.png)

Locate the `MyCompany.MyDecoratorModule` and click on the `Install` button (located to the right).

> 

Author: Again, I'm wondering that if we make this how-to assume the previous how-to as a starting point, then we could stream line this how-to and largely avoid this section. Ideally this should be possible to also set up in the Module Builder.

It also presents an Intent Architect feature idea where the module builder should be able to capture these dependencies, if it can't already.

Reviewer: I think we can have the asset repo docs defined in a separate page and just have a small reference in the how-to. But to imply that the previous starting point is the way to go, is a problem. Especially if you take out the link in the beginning of the page which states that. But even if you don't, you certainly don't want to convoluted the previous how-to with concerns that it is not supposed to be concerned with.

Author: Building on my [big comment](https://github.com/IntentSoftware/Docs/pull/1/files#r366506549), for the sake of keeping the article concise, let's assume they probably:
- ...know about module dependencies, but it's a good idea to put a HINT which links to an article which explains them.
- ...know about adding repositories to Intent and installing modules, so we just need to tell the reader the module needs to be installed, but it's a good idea to have a link on how to do so.

```suggestion
In your Intent Architect application, [install or re-install the module](xref:TODO).

> [!HINT]
> (Optional.) You can refer to the [](xref:TODO) article if you would like this module to depend upon the module with the template interface and automatically install it too.
```

> When you run the Software Factory, you should see the expected change in the `Startup.cs` file.

Author: ```suggestion
The decorator is ready, run the software factory and you should see it showing that `Startup.cs` is to be updated:
```

![Code Generation With Decorator](images/create-new-decorator/CodeGenerationWithDecorator.png)

> When you inspect that file you should notice this diff view:

Author: ```suggestion
Click the file to review the proposed changes:
```

![Code Diff My Decorator](images/create-new-decorator/CodeDiffMyDecorator.png)

> You can now apply the changes and inspect the file yourself.

Author: ```suggestion
Press `Apply Changes` in the software factory execution window to commit the proposed changes to your disk.
```
